Azure Storage Services-Azure Blob Storage,Azure Blob Storage,Azure File Storage,Azure Table Storage,Managing Azure Storage,Azure CosmosDB,Azure Relational Database,Authentication in Azure + Demos

Azure Storage: cloud 

this component of azure represents storing data in the cloud, its durable.

Allows you to store the following:

1)  Storing tables

[
LOB---Large Objects are 2 types:
1) BLOB---Binary Large Objects
2) CLOB---Character Large Objects
]
2) Storing Blobs---text files,audio,video etc
3) Storing Clobs----large files, file storage, files in a particular encrypted format
4) Message Queue

etc


Accessing the data is through http.


Replication/Redundancy Options:
1)Locally Redundant Storage: (LRS)--- Lowest cost option.
Copy of the data is created in the same region where storage account is created.
There are 3 copies of each request made against the data that resides on separate domains.

2) Geo-redundant storage: (GRS)--- Intermediate option on cost.
copy is created in a different region which means data is retained 
even if there is failure in the complete region.
The numbers of copies created for the data is 6.

3) Zone Redundant Storage(ZRS)---intermediate
available only for BLOB data.
copy of the data is created on separate facilities either in the same region or across 2 regions.
If there is a failure of one facility the data will still be immediately available from the other 
facility.
3 copies of the data are stored. Secondary location available if primary fails.


4) Geo Zone Redundant Storage(GZRS)----highest
 this allows reading of data from a secondary location if primary is not available.
Number of copies are 6.

Why All/One the above is preferred?
1) Maintenanace
2) Cost, divided among the org who use the servers.
3) Upgradation of the servers immediately possible, if needed.
4) Technical personnel availabitilty.
5) Available globally.(http)

Data Lake: A data lake is a central repository that allows you to store structured and unstructured data at any scale.
eg: email --> dateTime is structured and email content is unstructured.
XML is unstructured data, NoSQL is unstructured data.

Data Warehouse: a data warehouse is a database optimized to analyse the relational data coming from the business. Only structured data is in the warehouse, eg. relational database.


Data Storage:

1) Container: Container is associated with a user.




